GSCI :: Project Description
===========================

### GENERIC SOURCE CODE INDEXER

An index is a guide to access an entity with the help of another. In an array of objects, for example, you use integers to access objects; the integer being the index. An indexer performs the work creating these indexes for a group of objects so that they can be accessed in minimal time. 
A "source code" here, means the source code of a computer program/application/tool/software.  

So a source code indexer is a tool which takes in the source code as the input and "indexes" it and generates an "indexed source".  

What do I mean by "indexes" it?  
It goes through the source (parses the source) and marks different entities of a source code. For example, a function definition, a function call, a class decleration, an object instantiation, etc. In the "indexed source" that is generated (typically in HTML), you'll now find that a function call is linked to a function definition, an object instantiation is linked to the class decleration of the object's classs type, and many more!  
The usage of such an indexed code is that it can be used for easy understanding of a codebase, searching for entities in a huge codebase, etc.  

Let me show you a live example - Visit [http://sathyamvellal.in/0adblog/docs/main_8cpp_source.html][1]. This is an indexed source code of the open source game **0 A.D.** generated by Doxygen, a documentation generator for C/C++. Doxygen is also capable of generating indexed source code as HTML.

Let us see what features this indexed source code (by Doxygen) has so that you'll be more clear of what an "indexed source code" could contain -

1. If you look at the `#include` lines, clicking on a header file takes you to the documentation of the header file.  
2. On [line #94][2], you can see `static InReaction MainInputHandler(const SDL_Event_* ev)`. Clicking on `InReaction` will take you to the documentation of the type called `InReaction`. You'll see that InReaction is an enum. 
3. If you've clicked on the link in the previous line, you can see that you can create direct links to lines of code!. The previous point linked to [line #94 in main.cpp][2]. Pretty cool right?
4. If you come down to [line #505][3], you'll see a function `InitGraphics(...)` being called. Clicking on that will take you to the documentation of the that function. 
5. Instantiate an object of a class, the constructor call will have a link to the class's constructor. A method will have a link to the class's method definition and so on.

So what's happening here? Doxygen has analyzed the source code and seen where, for example, a function `foo` is defined and where this function `foo` is called. While generating the indexed source code, it links this call to `foo` to the definition of the function in its appropriate position. Only thing is that Doxygen links to the documentation first than the actual source. A link to the source however can be found in this documentation. A drawback of Doxygen is that it can be used only for C and C++. It does have minimal support to a couple of languages more but that's it.  

Our Source Code Indexer does a similar job. Only thing is that we don't care about the documentation. We just index the source code. This can help in easy navigation while going through a source code and also in searching for something in a codebase. However, the most important goal of this project is to be generic, meaning, the tool will be able to easily index source code of many languages. We obviously cannot support all the thousands of programming languages!

Next: [Design Document][4]

[1]: http://sathyamvellal.in/0adblog/docs/main_8cpp_source.html
[2]: http://sathyamvellal.in/0adblog/docs/main_8cpp_source.html#l00094
[3]: http://sathyamvellal.in/0adblog/docs/main_8cpp_source.html#l00505
[4]: https://github.com/sathyamvellal/gsci/tree/design/design-document.md
